README.md, before:

# tdebt - Technical Debt Hotspot finder

The `tdebt` utility helps finding hotspots of technical debt in projects. To do this it assigns a debt metric to every source file. The bigger the debt metric value the more technical debt has been accumulated in the affected file. The debt value is the product of the normalized complexity and the normalized churn of a file:

    debt(file) = (complexity(file) / max(complexity(all files in project)))
             * (churn(file) / max(churn(all files in project)))

See [Code as a Crime Scene](https://www.adamtornhill.com/articles/crimescene/codeascrimescene.htm) for more background. 

*Note*: above normalization makes the debt metric a relative number for comparing files within a project. Values of files from different projects are not comparable. For the same reason the debt metric can neither be used for tracking debt over time.

Complexity is measured either simply in number of lines of code or more sophistically using cyclomatic complexity. 

Churn is measured by number of version controls revisions. 
### Dependencies 
* `git` for calculating churn
  * tested versions: 2.17.1 / 2.20.1
* `bash` and `wc` for counting lines of codes.
* [`PMD`](https://pmd.github.io/) for calculating cyclomatic complexities
  * tested version 6.30.0
  * make sure a symlink `pmd` to `pmd-bin-6.30.0/bin/run.sh` is on the `$PATH`. E.g. `ln -s /opt/pmd-bin-6.30.0/bin/run.sh /usr/local/bin/pmd`. 

### Usage 
`tdebt [pmd|loc] [-h] <path to git repo>` 

Where `pmd` chooses PMD to calculate the complexity and `loc` choose `wc -l` to calculate the complexity.

#### Example 
Running the command 

    $ tdebt pmd ~/Checkouts/jackrabbit-oak

results in the following output (last 10 lines only):

    ("oak-core/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/security/authorization/permission/CompiledPermissionImpl.java",Metric {churn = 91, complexity = 160, debt = 4.034023217798465e-2})
    ("oak-core/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/query/QueryImpl.java",Metric {churn = 88, complexity = 218, debt = 5.315158063890505e-2})
    ("oak-store-document/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/plugins/document/DocumentNodeStore.java",Metric {churn = 44, complexity = 454, debt = 5.5345911949685536e-2})
    ("oak-core/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/query/ast/SelectorImpl.java",Metric {churn = 116, complexity = 177, debt = 5.6886376859778896e-2})
    ("oak-store-document/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/plugins/document/rdb/RDBDocumentStore.java",Metric {churn = 53, complexity = 436, debt = 6.402349486049927e-2})
    ("oak-core/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/plugins/index/AsyncIndexUpdate.java",Metric {churn = 117, complexity = 217, debt = 7.034327986036074e-2})
    ("oak-core/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/query/SQL2Parser.java",Metric {churn = 70, complexity = 368, debt = 7.13711800072036e-2})
    ("oak-lucene/src/test/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/plugins/index/lucene/LucenePropertyIndexTest.java",Metric {churn = 125, complexity = 215, debt = 7.446042168841603e-2})
    ("oak-jcr/src/test/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/jcr/RepositoryTest.java",Metric {churn = 168, complexity = 164, debt = 7.633613165987864e-2})
    ("oak-lucene/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/plugins/index/lucene/LucenePropertyIndex.java",Metric {churn = 138, complexity = 286, debt = 0.10935084365389411})

Commit message:

added build section to readme

README.md, after:

# tdebt - Technical Debt Hotspot finder

The `tdebt` utility helps finding hotspots of technical debt in projects. To do this it assigns a debt metric to every source file. The bigger the debt metric value the more technical debt has been accumulated in the affected file. The debt value is the product of the normalized complexity and the normalized churn of a file:

    debt(file) = (complexity(file) / max(complexity(all files in project)))
             * (churn(file) / max(churn(all files in project)))

See [Code as a Crime Scene](https://www.adamtornhill.com/articles/crimescene/codeascrimescene.htm) for more background.

*Note*: above normalization makes the debt metric a relative number for comparing files within a project. Values of files from different projects are not comparable. For the same reason the debt metric can neither be used for tracking debt over time.

Complexity is measured either simply in number of lines of code or more sophistically using cyclomatic complexity.

Churn is measured by number of version controls revisions.
### Dependencies
* `git` for calculating churn
  * tested versions: 2.17.1 / 2.20.1
* `bash` and `wc` for counting lines of codes.
* [`PMD`](https://pmd.github.io/) for calculating cyclomatic complexities
  * tested version 6.30.0
  * make sure a symlink `pmd` to `pmd-bin-6.30.0/bin/run.sh` is on the `$PATH`. E.g. `ln -s /opt/pmd-bin-6.30.0/bin/run.sh /usr/local/bin/pmd`.

### Usage
`tdebt [pmd|loc] [-h] <path to git repo>`

Where `pmd` chooses PMD to calculate the complexity and `loc` choose `wc -l` to calculate the complexity.

#### Example
Running the command

    $ tdebt pmd ~/Checkouts/jackrabbit-oak

results in the following output (last 10 lines only):

    ("oak-core/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/security/authorization/permission/CompiledPermissionImpl.java",Metric {churn = 91, complexity = 160, debt = 4.034023217798465e-2})
    ("oak-core/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/query/QueryImpl.java",Metric {churn = 88, complexity = 218, debt = 5.315158063890505e-2})
    ("oak-store-document/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/plugins/document/DocumentNodeStore.java",Metric {churn = 44, complexity = 454, debt = 5.5345911949685536e-2})
    ("oak-core/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/query/ast/SelectorImpl.java",Metric {churn = 116, complexity = 177, debt = 5.6886376859778896e-2})
    ("oak-store-document/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/plugins/document/rdb/RDBDocumentStore.java",Metric {churn = 53, complexity = 436, debt = 6.402349486049927e-2})
    ("oak-core/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/plugins/index/AsyncIndexUpdate.java",Metric {churn = 117, complexity = 217, debt = 7.034327986036074e-2})
    ("oak-core/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/query/SQL2Parser.java",Metric {churn = 70, complexity = 368, debt = 7.13711800072036e-2})
    ("oak-lucene/src/test/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/plugins/index/lucene/LucenePropertyIndexTest.java",Metric {churn = 125, complexity = 215, debt = 7.446042168841603e-2})
    ("oak-jcr/src/test/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/jcr/RepositoryTest.java",Metric {churn = 168, complexity = 164, debt = 7.633613165987864e-2})
    ("oak-lucene/src/main/java/org/apache/jackrabbit/oak/plugins/index/lucene/LucenePropertyIndex.java",Metric {churn = 138, complexity = 286, debt = 0.10935084365389411})


### Building `tdebt`

`tdebt` uses [The Haskell Tool Stack](https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/README/#how-to-install) for building

    stack build
